# Voice-driven-conversational-agents-using-text-processing
The objective of this project was to create a voice based conversational agent which can mimic a human conversation using audio. An android application lets the user can use to interact with the chatbot and the response generated by the chatbot can be viewed on the screen and is heard by the user as audio. The chatbot was trained using Cornell Movie Dataset and ChatterBot Corpus.

The data was preprocessed using different natural language preprocessing techniques like tokenization, stemming, bag of words. Given an input by the user, the chatbot selects one of the closest matching responses by searching for the closest matching statements using Jaccard similarity and uses Naive Bayes classification algorithm to check if the input meets a set of criteria to get a valid response by calculating the likelihood.

We are going to use LSTM with Seq2Seq generation to build the model. 

•	We use google text to speech recognition apis. 

•	The LSTM sequence-to-sequence (SEQ2SEQ) model is one type of neural generation model that maximizes the probability of generating a response given the previous dialogue turn.

•	It reads inputs one token at a time and outputs a prediction sequence one token at a time. The words were converted into vectors and the cosine distance between the predicted token and the target token was minimized. The model predicts the next step in a sequence but does not carry along context to hold human like conversations.

•	It uses a forget gate to filter the amount of past information the LSTM should keep, Input gate, decides which information should be input into the network, Candidate state generates a vector of potential candidate, output of the cell is calculated as a weighted product of influence of the current input and previous hidden state

Two problems emerge for Seq 2 Seq: 

•	First, SEQ2SEQ models are trained by predicting the next dialogue turn in a given conversational context using the maximum-likelihood estimation (MLE) objective function. However, it is not clear how well MLE approximates the real-world goal of chatbot development: teaching a machine to converse with humans, while providing interesting, diverse, and informative feedback that keeps users engaged.

•	Second, system becomes stuck in an infinite loop of repetitive responses. This is due to MLE-based SEQ2SEQ models’ inability to account for repetition
